---
title: "About"
date: 2019-07-19T23:55:53-04:00
---

I could tell you about my past and you would know where I've been. It would let you generalise ideas of the genesis and purpose for my behavior and perspectives. I don't find that very useful though, as all that would provide is background. Roots are certainly important and form a part of my identity to an extent, especially my natural roots. However, my history is really something that happened after me. I was and then I was influenced. As pretentious as that sounds, I've never really thought of events as constitutive but rather developmental. They were opportunities for me to discover myself, who already was, and not additions to a previously less substantial me. I at my core am, as John Paul II may put it, a subject, an essence embodied, a person personified. I come to discover and express, but not create, more of myself through self exploration and interaction with the world. In my opinion the best way to get to know me wouldn't be for me to list my strife, accolades, goals, and drives. That would only provide an idea of how you would respond to something I responded to, and your judgement of my response. At best, my response save your judgement. The external and the response I externalise are so much farther away from me than you could be getting. The best way to get to know me would be through experience of my expression, since we are all essentially expressions of persons, in my writing here. In short, I prefer you ideate my actual and not my actualisation.

If, given all that, you want a word to describe me, there is one that encapsulates my essence perfectly and it is my name: ***Adwoa**.
