---
title: "Is the Heart Half Full"
date: 2019-07-19T23:55:02-04:00
categories: ["faith"]
weight: 15
summary: "What does it mean to have a hole in your heart? What if the our hearts can't be filled and that is a good thing?"
---

If I were to confide in those close to me about a difficulty I'm struggling with a theme would reveal itself in the responses. They would be the same reponses that we lean on when we look at a faithful person fighting an unfamiliar battle. Often it can be so hard to reconcile how a certain place in life can coexist with any level of grace that we judge the virtue of the individual, perhaps even indirectly blame them for arriving in whatever unusual dire strait they are in. The words *you must accept Jesus into your heart* sound like pure truth, why wouldn't they apply in any situation? *Lean on the Lord and His Love will deliver you from slavery.* A series of falacies live between the lines of this kind of advice, however. On one side the intensity and expression of devotion and relationship with Christ look so different from person to person. How can we presume to know someone has too little or none at all? On another side the welcoming of Christ into our lives is a minute to minute process and unfortunately does not promise to remove every obstacle or issue that may come along in your life.

We are told not to be luke warm but what is the boiling point, and is there one? While the outcome of salvation is binary and only known by God, the visible signs of it are as broad and multifaceted as the life they affect. These problem may lie in the language we often use in for Christ's presence in our hearts, and the influence of alternative doctrines in our culture. *Accept Christ into your life.* When we say these words we are essentially saying: *The reason you have this dilemma is because Christ is not in your life. When Christ is in your life dilemmas like this don't happen.* Imagine how a person can plummet if they find that despite their perceived bonding with Christ, none was truly there. They hear that now they must search their hearts for the root of the lie of their love of God. We do not command grace in the form of divine intervention. Unlike love, it does not flow unceasingly into our lives when we lean on Christ. It seems that tied up in all this is the truth that in a way, we are all broken. We all have some place in life Jesus can fill.

It should be avoided, however, concluding from brokenness that even in our fallen state God's presence is either zero or one, and that it is finite. Broken is a static state and has a negative connotation. Something either is broken or isn't broken. You could say that an item can be fixed to a point where it's partially working but it's still broken at the end of the day. I concede, this is a proper portrayal of fallen humanity, but this is a pessimistic view. Why would we willingly talk about our hearts in a way where if the glass is even a drop from full it's still, one drop empty. With this we negate the blood and water from the heart of Christ already filling a cup to the brim, just because it is missing one more drop for Jesus to fill. What's more, this is the heart, a glass with special properties. There is no limit to the amount of blood and water present in the cup. God is infinite, even being limited to a fraction of Him, a fraction of infinity is still infinite. Furthermore, if God is infinite we can't reduce his presence in our hearts to finite, or even measurable, terms such as full or empty, broken or whole. As fallen we have to admit that we can't achieve a perfect union, but no heart is broken, only filled with Christ to some differing extent, or equal extent but in differing chambers.

To bring this back around, we cannot attribute strife in the path of the believer to a lack of virtue or a state of brokenness. We cannot presume God is not there by presuming God would lift all afflictions. We should focus on, and increase the love of and relationship with the Lord we already have, leaning into Christ not expecting deliverance, but accepting acceptance and love itself. 